Let's talk for a moment about recursive
types which you'll need in order to
attempt the exercise
that we're leading into.
So let's imagine we wanted to type,
values like this, right?
It's an array of numbers nested.
You can nest numbered arrays
inside other numbered arrays.
You can't put a string here,
Because it's not number, but
you can go as deep as you want.
So we would need a recursive
type in order to describe this,
and this is an example of
a recursive type here.
So we're saying nested numbers,
can be a number or
an array of nested numbers.
As we're evaluating this type, we're
first looking at the right hand side,
just like a JavaScript expression,
where if you say x equals 5 or
x equals the result of this function,
right?
Well, first we're gonna run the function
and then we're gonna get the return value.
And then finally,
we're gonna assign it to the variable.
Type aliases are processed
in much the same way,
where we're gonna look at the right
hand side of the equals first.
And so what's happening here
is we're saying, all right,
it's allowed to be a number.
It's allowed to be this type, which I
know we're in the process of defining.
So I'm going to put a pin in that,
all right, now I'm gonna say,
this is typed nested numbers and
it sort of all fits together.
It's almost like you can just
reference the type itself here.
So this lets you say, numbers or
arrays of numbers infinitely nested.
This is an example of a recursive type,
It's a little mind-bending.
This is a simple example, but
a little bit of an abstract one,
but we're gonna need it in
order to define types for JSON.
So here,
let's prove to ourselves that this works.
We can push 41,
you can push an array containing
the number 41 as many times as we want.
But we cannot push the string.
I wonder if we could push an empty array.
I think so,
it'll infer that it's a number array.
It'll try to make it work,
yep, that's fine.
It's like those are empty,
I can see how they could be numbers,
I'll treat them as arrays of numbers.
It's trying to bend things in
order to make it all happen.
That's a recursive type.
If you look online or if you Google this,
you may come across outdated information
that says you must use a technique
involving interfaces and
type aliases to make recursive types.
Used to be the case that you had to use
both, have one feed into the other.
You don't have to do that anymore,
just type aliases will do.